[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with somebody
who is going to blow your mind jamie
kern lima welcome to the show
thank you so much so excited to be here
i am super excited to have you on and so
i have a very strong agenda after
reading your book of the things that i
want to get to
you've told your story extraordinarily
well in terms of the business success
and if nowhere else go to women of
impact the interview there was smashing
you walk people through just the insane
success you had going from you know
selling out of your living room
essentially i know that story very well
to building a billion dollar business
and exiting and i mean like the dream
ceo of l'oreal for three years i mean
it's absolute insanity
if we can just take a quick second like
what's the 60 second synopsis of your
business life
ah business life uh it's really a
journey of
well the real business life is starting
as a denny's waitress and kind of
knowing deep down inside that i wanted
to
you know get out and see the world meet
people with different backgrounds all
that like i knew
um
i knew i wanted to serve more give more
all those things i didn't yet know how
um and battled with a lot of self-doubt
all of that uh eventually i was a
journalist
and had this moment time where i thought
something was a big setback in my life i
got a skin condition called rosacea so
i'd be anchoring the news live
and i would hear while i'm talking live
over over television i would hear in my
ear from my producer there's something
on your face there's something in my
face wipe it off wipe it off and you
know i developed this this bright red
skin condition there was no cure for and
long story short i went through a season
of worried i'd be fired worried like
trying to solve my problem
realized that i couldn't find any makeup
that worked for it and kind of had this
i guess classic entrepreneurial moment
of oh if i have this problem there must
be so many other people out there that
can't find anything else that works for
them
and had the crazy idea on my honeymoon
flight to south africa write the
business plan with my husband
uh got that credit quit our jobs dove
all in
uh and uh spent three years hearing no
from everyone kind of rejection and and
didn't know how we were going to survive
got down to under a thousand dollars in
our bank account and
it all came down three years into the
business um i have one big moment on qvc
uh where i kind of risked it all
went with my gut over what the experts
were saying and
long story short um we built this this
business and what i thought was a
setback right was my my skin challenges
ended up being a set up for like part of
my calling part of what i was supposed
to do and
over the years we built what's now the
largest luxury makeup company in the
country so
uh in built to over a thousand employees
and then in 2016 l'oreal acquired uh the
company for 1.2 billion cash and
it was really
it was uh i'm making it sound easy it
was
literally the hardest decade of my life
100 hour weeks made so many mistakes um
and you know i think that
what the last thing i'll say uh is that
you know
when i read the headlines about my story
online it's like oh denny's waitress 2
billion entrepreneur and the reason i
wrote this book is because i realized
like oh if we don't share the real
story behind the story like all the
mistakes and all the the the setbacks
and the rejection and
if we don't ever share that then people
going through it on in their own space
they feel like they're alone and they
see everyone else's highlight reel and
so this whole book is like
what really happened
the stories behind the stories and then
and then just how i got through them and
and my hope is that for you know for
everyone in your in your community that
i'm so grateful just to share this this
time and the space with that
you know
i think it's a common thread through
humanity for all of us in our own
journey uh in business or in life that
we kind of go on this journey from
uh not believing in ourselves and then
hopefully learning how um
and that's really what this book is all
about is how i went from not believing
myself to believing um doubting i was
enough to knowing i'm enough and
the stuff i did wrong and right and yeah
thank you
thank you i'm so honored you read it too
by the way i know how smart you are so
i'm a little scared of your question
that is hilarious on two levels
so one i certainly do not identify as
somebody who is known for his
intelligence but two
your book was
your book is amazing people should read
it and they should read it for the
following very specific reasons so
people know that i'm not just bsing
you're going way out of your way to show
what it means to really build a business
and transcend where you are and so i'm
obsessed with an idea that now reading
your book i realize you're obsessed with
as well we use slightly different
wording for it what i say is it doesn't
matter who you are it only matters who
you want to become and the price you're
willing to pay to get there and that was
a theme that runs through your book and
where i want to start and we are
definitely going to cover the hard stuff
so people are not going to walk away
from this interview thinking that what
you did was easy
i want to start with a quote from the
book
that i thought was
so powerful and this really defines
the way you talked about my community
this defines what i want my community to
think of in life like this is sort of
that guiding principle and this is
directly from you
when something hard happens once you're
able to process it emotionally you're
left with choices do you victim up or do
you warrior up do you give up or do you
level up the up is up to you i have the
chills that's so crazy i love that
so now when you put it back in context
of what you go through in the book from
just like you know not coming from means
and you know one point you can't even
afford your car and you're having to
borrow car from family members and being
on air and having people tell you you
know hey there's something wrong with
your face in your business people
telling you i don't think people are
gonna buy makeup from somebody that
looks like you
um i'm just the bullying behind the
scene which was crazy
so
all of those stories
you detail in the book like a thousand
different points where i promise you
99.99999 percent of the world stop
and you have a jay-z quote in the book
and you say jay-z says the genius thing
we did was never give up
and
that feels like the genius move that you
played as well talk to me about the idea
of who we can become what is it you want
us to believe
yeah
my biggest
hope prayer intention
is that
each person
closes this book
and is better able
to
hear their own gut
and trust themselves
and what i mean by that is you know
i think sometimes i think what jay-z
said is is so right right
but i also think it's not a victory
because we're told so many times keep
going don't give up don't give up like
since the time we're little kids we
watch
you know even if we don't play sports we
watch movies and kids are taught just
don't quit don't give up
i actually think it's a failure
if we don't ever learn how to tune in
and hear our own cat and our truth and
our calling and then we just keep going
and don't give up anyway
and we're not on the right path and what
i mean by that is you know i since the
time i was a little girl i'd watch oprah
in my living room and i i just had this
this knowing oh i want to interview
other people like my whole in my whole
instincts tom are i literally just want
to ask you questions right now about you
and lisa who i'm obsessed with and like
that's my my who i am right i love other
people's stories
and so i knew that's what i always
wanted to do for my career so you know
eventually um that's what i did i was
working as a journalist i was working as
a television news anchor and when i got
that problem and i mentioned earlier
that skin problem you know i was at this
moment in time and i think you know
hopefully everyone in impact their
community like
wherever you're at in life right now at
this very moment
i believe everyone has a knowing inside
of them i don't think it matters if they
have a faith or no faith i don't think
about any of that i think everyone
universally has a knowing or a truth
inside
and i think most people never learn how
to get still and hear it and most people
if they do get still and hear it they're
going to know right now live while
they're listening to your knee
are they in the right
job they're supposed to be in
or
is there is are they are they playing it
small
are they in the right relationship
or are they in it and dimming their own
light because of fear
that maybe they'll be alone we all have
a knowing right
and you know what i'll say about the
idea of
giving up leveling up all of that
i think it's so important that um you
know in that moment where i had the and
again let me just say there's so much i
did wrong and i share all that stuff too
one of the things i did right was when i
had this this gut feeling as i'm sitting
there with this skin problem this gut
feeling oh you're supposed to figure out
how to how to create a beauty company
even though i knew nobody in the beauty
industry had no connections had very
little money because television news
does not pay very well um
i had that knowing right and yet i was
sitting there in my dream job
like that was my dream job since the
time i was a little kid so
i think sometimes like knowing when to
let go of a dream knowing when to quit
is actually a victory too it's actually
as important as when to keep going right
and so with jay-z's quote the genius
thing we did was we didn't give up
i i think that applies
only if someone
hears their truth and says all right i
have this knowing i'm supposed to be
doing what i'm doing
and
when i look back at this journey of
three years of constant rejection down
to under a thousand dollars in a bank
account
literally getting knocked down over and
over from all of these beauty retailers
that i put on a pedestal and i couldn't
understand why they were telling me i
wasn't the right fit for them
every time i would check in with my gut
right and maybe so many people out there
can relate to this because you you feel
like you're doing something you're
supposed to be doing but like for me
there was no proof around me that my
idea was right there was no traction in
my business there was nobody saying yeah
that's a great idea let me buy your
product and then i'm going to the beauty
retailers and they didn't believe in the
brand and everything around me was
saying you're wrong
and
the easiest thing in life is to confuse
that
with the truth
and i think the only way we know the
truth in life is when we get good at
getting still and hearing that inner
knowing and so for me
every time i would get knocked down i
would just check in
get still and it's hard sometimes
because a lot of people out there they
have not heard their own gut in a long
time right because we have like our
friends and family that are are worried
about us if we're or they're seeing
everything through the lens of their own
life and their own fear and their own
experience you know experience or lack
of experience and then we have you know
in my case experts who i valued so much
saying like ah
you know you're not the right fit you're
not you know not literally saying no and
as as you know as i shared in so many
stories in the book they said so many
other
crazier
things that all but basically said like
it's not just a no now it's a no forever
right um but i think the victory is
learning to get still and hearing your
knowing and then trusting it
a lot of people
don't trust themselves and and i think
that is what keeps people inside their
comfort zone in life which i think when
you stay in your comfort zone it comes
it chips away at your soul
and
you end up talking yourself out of your
own truth
and then never becoming the person
you're born to be
not to get all dramatic on impact theory
but that to me is the biggest and listen
to me it's not about the outcome oh he
here's how to create a billion dollar
company it's about the journey of are
you
stepping into all of who you are and the
person you're born to be and how do you
do that
all right that was amazing but now are
you ready to get into the weeds on this
idea
let's do it in your book
you talk about developing your intuition
how do people develop their intuition so
that when they need to turn to it and
they learn to be still and listen to it
that it actually gives them good advice
yeah the very first step is to pay
attention right which it's listen we are
so busy in our lives right now and so
many of us with all the stuff going on
with with the pandemic with this with
that with our job with and then frankly
at the end of some days all i want to do
is scroll instagram or like yesterday
eat candy hearts for valentine's day
like you know what i'm saying i don't
want to like actually put in the work
but i believe that it's so important
like if someone's gonna do anything and
you hear so much about morning routine
or this or that or whatever
taking five minutes a day and just
starting
building that muscle and at first it may
make no sense right especially because
so many people are out of practice but
literally getting still even if you have
to just go sit in a closet
leave your phone out just go sit in the
closet and just see what you think and
and you know and and can you hear your
own truth and another thing i would say
just as a real fundamental level is to
look back at your past because i believe
it's something we build over time if we
pay attention right and i can say that
most of my mistakes i've made when i
look back is because i didn't trust my
own gut and i trusted my mind instead
and my mind was able to say oh
these are all the experts they're
experts for a reason uh they're touted
visionaries and they're telling you to
change this about your product packaging
or they're telling you to do this about
and they have a proven track record and
you don't so even though jamie you have
some gut feeling like go you know my
mind won and when when that's happened
those are some of my biggest mistakes
and
i think looking back on that's important
just to like break it down at a real
fundamental level
so many of us have dated the person we
know is not right for us you know what i
mean but we know right and i can think
of times where
i was dating a guy who i was so into and
like his phone broke
and he disappeared and i knew
he's lying
i knew it but i didn't want to know it i
didn't want to know it right so what
what happens i'm like oh
well it's only the first time it's ever
happened maybe he's telling the truth
maybe all the things right i know he's
sketchy i know he's lying right but we
sometimes we know and this is such a
basic example and we just choose
to not to to to
talk ourselves out of it anyway right
and i think that every human being
can really actually just put in a little
time thinking about different moments in
their life
and actually start to remember like did
i have a gut feeling about this at the
time or did i not
or you know did was there a time i
listened to that inner knowing and i was
right right and we start thinking about
those times and it starts to build up
our own trust in ourselves over time and
for me this was a this was a huge way
that i was able to keep going i am
you you mentioned one thing that that
i mean i i remember and tom after you
know this we were a couple years into
our business and uh i had been sending
our product out to all the retailers and
saying hey i want to show
models that actually have skin
challenges like i do and that had never
been done before right and i wanted to
do all these things and they were all
telling me no and it's not the right fit
and i knew my product was really good um
i learned the lesson the hard lesson a
lot of entrepreneurs learn that you can
have a great product or a great course
or a great service for a great but
that's not enough but people have to
know it exists
right and when you have no money and no
ad budget that's really hard and this is
2008 2009 uh 2010
youtube wasn't huge yet so no one had
gone out there and said oh
instead of overly photoshopped
perfect skin models let's show real
people with real skin challenges and all
ages and sizes and skin tones and that's
what i had this vision for because
that's what i was you know and
and we created a product that was so
good and then after all these rejections
from all the department stores all the
beauty stores saying no thank you it's a
pass
your product will never sell those kind
of images don't work i had one store
tell me women will only buy from
an aspirational image of beauty they'll
never be able to look like
if they can actually look that way they
won't buy it and it was just like over
and over and over rejection um and i'll
never forget this one moment just to
share as an example because it
helped me develop my intuition muscle so
strongly
but we had gotten an inbound call from a
potential investor
and uh and they were a really well-known
private equity company and they invested
in a lot of consumer products in the
grocery stores like household names that
we buy they loved our product and so we
started taking meetings with them and i
was so freaking excited because i felt
like
oh my gosh if they invest in us then
maybe they'll use their leverage to get
us into these retailers and also i won't
go bankrupt and all those things and
then there's that
and uh and so we did meetings we started
the diligence phase we presented product
pipelines all that stuff and it got down
to the last meeting and my husband and i
flew there for the meeting
and it was the head guy he was standing
about three feet from me
and i thought it was gonna be like the
best day of my life right and i'll never
forget he's three feet away and he says
to me i just don't think
women well he's the first he said it's a
no we're gonna pass on investing in it
cosmetics and like i've heard no
thousands of times right so i'm like
devastated but i'm like okay um can you
share why you know because feedback
um
is usually a gift and uh and he says you
want me to be really honest with you and
i said yes and he literally was three
feet from me and he said i just don't
think women will buy makeup from someone
who looks like you with your body and
your weight
and i remember when he said that to me
a bunch of things happened the first
thing was i i remember feeling like my
whole body fled with like a lifetime of
body issues body doubt and self-doubt
and i felt all that so kind of felt like
i staring my own fear straight in the
eye talking to him
i never felt anger toward him i felt
hurt and crushed uh but i also got this
feeling i'll never forget this time i'll
never forget this rest of my life i got
this feeling like literally in my gut
like a knowing he's wrong
even though i was still doubting myself
even though i had dealt with like a
lifetime of bodybutt i got this feeling
he's wrong and i remember that feeling
because i remember then for a few years
wondering
like
am i right or is he right i would still
doubt myself right and
and i went out in my car and i cried
and
i had to figure out
how do i turn down the volume in my own
head and not replay those hurtful words
over and over and over
but i also remember that feeling i got
and
and i don't this is a big business thing
not to be off topic but like one of the
things i did do right was i never took
rejection personally in business right i
always figured out how to go okay like
if this is a game of chess
maybe we will partner one day so i'm
just going to pretend we are with every
retailer and i'm just going to keep
sending them product and keep sending
them updates and keep telling them i
can't wait till i'm in your store no
matter how bad that rejection hurt and
in his case what i realized also was oh
okay the reason i'm creating this
company i want to try to shift culture
and beauty i want to try to use
different images of models and
he's literally passing on investing in
my company because he is just as much
influenced by a lifetime of seeing
beauty images too so he believes also
whether he realizes it or not you can
look a certain way to sell product
and the last thing i'll say about that
is i do believe in that famous saying
that like rejection's god's protection
right you could say rejection is the
universe's protection i do believe
in sayings like that and when you fast
forward six years later
the day that l'oreal bought at cosmetics
uh it was all over the like the wall
street journal homepage was everywhere
online because they hit their public
company so that means for them they
decided to release the purchase price
everything
i got an email from that guy from that
investor i got an email that day
that said uh congratulations
i'm so happy for you i was wrong
but the other thing when i talk about
like rejection is god's protection i
really believe that because even though
we don't see it at the time and it
doesn't make sense at the time but like
i was so desperate tom i would have
probably given him the majority of the
company for like almost no money and
because he didn't believe in us and
because so many people rejected us along
the way by the time we did sell our
business to l'oreal we're still the
largest shareholders so it was like
there's so many situations like that but
anyhow that deep knowing that knowing
he's wrong
that's an example of okay looking back
over time
where did i make mistakes and where did
i do things right and then we refined
that muscle of of learning oh yeah you
know learning to trust ourselves
there's so much in that that is
extraordinary we're now going to test my
abilities as an interviewer to see if i
can tease out some of the things that
you talk about in the book to put a
capstone on this idea of training your
intuition so i have a deep and abiding
fear of being spiritual entertainment
people will be moved by you they will be
moved by your story but if they're very
careful and they pay close attention
it will change how they move through the
world certainly as a person just
pursuing goals but potentially even as
somebody who wants to start their own
business so now i want to talk more
about how i see intuition tell me if you
think i go astray if you have an insight
maybe that i'm missing this is what i'm
taking from your book so obviously if i
get something wrong let me know but so
when you get to that moment in the book
and you talk about hearing that
devastating news which for anybody would
be ruthlessly difficult for a woman just
multiply it by a hundred
so
the fact that it you know maybe was a a
dazing blow but you regain yourself and
you get back in the game and i start
replaying your story from the beginning
things you'd already talked about in the
book up until that moment
and i realized
okay wait she struggled with her weight
in school she was sneaking diet shakes
and drinking them in the bathroom with
other girls who were going through the
same thing and that was like the first
ding okay other girls that are going
through the same thing that's
interesting
and you know really struggling with your
weight and seeing how it affects other
people and
you know wanting to find ways to connect
with them and make them feel better and
you develop this ability almost to
soothe other people even more
effectively than you soothe yourself
which being was another okay that's
interesting to see sort of what you
could give to somebody else and what i
want people to understand what i'm
building here is the context it is your
i talk it about it in terms of context
or frame of reference but it's your it's
what people would refer to as their gut
the thing that sort of escapes logic
that's built on everything you've lived
up to that point and then there's one
thing that when i read in your book i
legitimately was by myself and out loud
i was like what i had no idea that you
found out in your late 20s 27 if i'm not
mistaken that you're adopted
and that you become obsessed with who am
i and the notion of who i am has sort of
fallen away into tatters and i was like
oh my the chill i wish you could see
that on camera i have the [__] chills
thinking about how your story all of
those elements because you had the
ability to contextualize it
see it as intuition god speaking to you
however you translate that
but that that
quest of identity
of realizing that
what your mission is in it comics was to
help people
love themselves as they were and so it
would be an affront to your very reason
for existing to take that guy's advice
so it's like if i'm a screenwriter
leading up to that moment for the
character to be true to herself of
course she has to reject that advice
because the being in the bathroom and
sharing those shakes and loving those
women those girls for who they were and
seeing something they couldn't see in
themselves and battling with your own
weight and then the adoption and having
to re-figure out who you are all of a
sudden you realize yo identity is like
extraordinarily important and now the
peace the resistance you marry that with
a real business education
not only of experience but actually
having gone to school and studied this
stuff
and now it's like
okay i've got pieces
that i can explain which by the way i'm
literally just walking people through
what's in the book which is why this
book is so powerful
of
when you understand
that your life has been hard everybody's
i'm talking to everybody now your life
has been hard it's full of upsets and
slights and abuses and dumb mistakes and
embarrassments and all that
what your
book and your ideas teach people is how
to
turn that into feeling
that when you're still you can interpret
through a mission
to make choices that are
counterintuitive now why is that
important
your life is an explanation of one very
simple idea which is if you want to
succeed big in business you must bet
against the consensus and be right
for you to have built something that you
could exit for 1.2 billion dollars
everyone had to be against you otherwise
they would already be doing it it had to
be the counter-intuitive idea and seeing
the pieces like that led up to that
moment
is breathtaking in your ability to lay
it out and like draw those pieces
together
and so what i hope people
don't lose because here is
and we may see this differently but when
i
i am compelled by one simple fact right
now your zip code is the number one
predictor of your future success that is
true because the context of your youth
binds into your mind in a way that is
ruthlessly difficult to recognize
as a construct you simply mistake it for
truth
and so people get trapped in these
very terrifying ways so i think a lot
about how do you get people to train
their intuition so that
really when they turn inward
because most people i think they turn
inward and they're still so broken they
think i'm not worthy and so when this
guy says don't do this
they crumble because they haven't
translated the hard experiences
into a mission which is what you did
[Music]
so good
i can't like seriously by the way i've
never heard and
anyone put it together like that and
such a through line and i think that
it's so true and i just want to call out
one thing that you said too
every single person listening right now
it is so easy
for us to see our our setbacks and our
hard times and our things where we feel
like we're not enough or
we didn't go to the right you know
the job or the right we don't come with
my family or we don't come from the
right zip code or
any of those things it's so easy
like to think that okay so here's what
i'm destined to do and and again
it's wild the power of because i believe
everyone has a calling i believe
everyone has
more than one purpose in their life um
and i feel like the things we go through
and by the way let me just be real
honest with you want to be really honest
i didn't even connect the dots until
just now with you about the
diet shake i've never shared the stories
i share in this book i've been like 95
of them i've never shared with anyone
ever right my family's gonna be like
you're drinking diet shakes in a
bathroom in school right so this is like
a lot of like it feels so vulnerable but
until you just said this right now tom i
didn't even put the dots together of
that
when i was sitting there drinking diet
shakes in the bathroom it's because i
didn't feel like i was enough and i felt
like oh if i can just be this size
i'll be happy or i'll be loved right
those are the things that we don't even
realize we're thinking in those moments
but those things we go through whatever
whatever those hard times are in
different forms right
it's like oh wow they actually if we do
pay attention they can become our
message our mission our super power
right but i'm putting two two together
live with you right now and i do a lot
of this in the book but never on that
one never on that one moment and i just
want to share it in case someone else
out there needs to hear this right now
that it if we really pay attention to
everything we've gone through and
it's it's it sets us up
for for what we're called to do
even when we think it's stuff we're
embarrassed about or want to hide or
we're ashamed of or we're ashamed that
something happened in our family or that
we made a big mistake in our lives or
had a big misjudgment
those things can truly if we pay
attention to them not only help us
refine our intuition but literally turn
into our super power right and
when i think about
the journey because the beauty industry
is crowded there's a million brands and
when i entered that space it was
impossible to get department store floor
space because it was dominated by all
the big companies and you know it's like
sometimes we have an idea or a dream and
it's very easy just for that simple fact
of saying oh it's been done before
there's a million other people doing it
before
and hearing you talk live now too one of
the things i'm reminded of is every
single person in your whole audience in
in the world frankly nobody can do it
the way you're gonna do it if you live
your truth
and when i think about the decisions
along the way of when all the department
stores told me no when everyone said
you're not the right fit you're not this
you're not that
i'm also realizing live with you right
now
that
you're right in the bathroom i've never
had this conversation with anyone by the
way in the bathroom drinking those diet
shakes
i understood at a deep level of pain the
idea of not enoughness i also understood
the power of community
of understanding and seeing the light in
other
women in that case it was girls we were
young seeing the light and the beauty in
other girls when they're not seeing
themselves
but still not seeing it myself
and having that understanding right and
that through line then
all the way through the investor telling
me
you know
women i don't believe we're gonna buy
makeup or something looks like your body
in your weight it's like going all the
way through that by that point when he
told me that i had a lot more life
experience i made a lot more mistakes
and i could actually hear my own gut
tell me he's wrong
and i made the decision to trust myself
right so
you know it would be a lot longer before
we finally got a shot on qvc
and a lot more no's after that investor
still
and
it's hard in life when nothing around us
tells us we're right you know it's hard
to then listen to that gut and keep
going but for me it's everything it's
everything and and
and to use
your wife lisa's example you know i
think we all have it but maybe it's a
super power to actually learn to hear it
and to trust it and to trust ourselves
you know for me it's life's greatest
journey for me it's how we all
step into the person we're born to be
versus talk ourselves out of ever
becoming that person
yes
i am obsessed with an idea that you have
in the book about how
um all the hard things are going to you
know like we started with that quote
they're either going to break you or
they're going to make you and really
that's up to you
and
the stories you share in the book are
really
they draw you in with their
they are both
entertaining because they're well
written and well told they're
gut-wrenching at times because i can
imagine what it would be like to go
through that
but they act ultimately as a yellow
brick road
in a way that i found
very enticing in your book
and one of the bricks on the yellow
brick road was that your father was an
alcoholic
and
you said something in the book that i
was really
impacted by given my wife lisa and what
she's like
um you said you know my dad loved me and
he was a kind and gentle man who quietly
struggled with alcoholism and the way
that you described that was very
generous
and you said but there were times you
would sit and stare at the clock and
because you had to wait for him to wake
up which your mom would be off working
and so sometimes it could be hours of
waiting for him to wake up and he would
wake up or he you would get to the time
where you were allowed to wake him up
and then he would ask you for an hour or
two and then i just imagine you're
sitting there watching the clock flip
until he finally gets up and you guys
can hang out
and
in that you said my dad inadvertently
taught me that women are superheroes
that have to be stronger than men
because that's what my mom was a
superhero who's essentially doing
everything by herself
and i was like
i know that it is
jamie i don't wish difficulties on
anybody
but
man when they're looked at from the
right lens they make pretty
extraordinary people so that's a story
you tell early in the book the yellow
brick road then leads to a photo of you
and seven of your friends so you and six
other people and you break down
every one of you guys has overcome it's
almost absurd the fact that out of seven
two of you were adopted
there's breast cancer there's learning
difficulty i mean it was crazy and yet
each and every one of them is absurdly
successful
how do people harness
difficulties like that
to become something powerful instead of
you know leaning into the the victim
side which
anybody would understand
people pulling the victim card from that
but how do you pull something else
the very first and most important thing
on how is you have to want to
and i think that every human being can
can
easily
go into victim mentality
on a lot of things that have happened in
all of our lives right
and
it's a mentality that actually can i
think reward you in a lot of ways and
also
um
become a justification too for for
staying inside your comfort zone when it
comes to things like going after your
dreams and it makes sense for a lot of
people right and again i think there's a
time i mean i'm not going to speak to
people that you know i'm not going to
speak to a lot of the really hard things
that require a lifetime of work
to figure out um
what i will say is therapy is the best
thing i've ever done
in really understanding this and i
actually talk about that is it does it
allow you to re-contextualize is that
the idea
yeah and to understand it at a deep
level and by the way
your show like this conversation
to me these are the things that are so
important that we invest in ourselves in
and do right because i mean i don't want
to stay in a place where it could be
easily this easy to stay at in my life i
think that the quote you started out
with like you know when these tough
times happen
you know do you warrior up or do you
victim up do you level up or do you give
up right the up is up to you and i do
believe
why i share the story of my seven
closest friends
um is because i think this is important
i think a lot of people out there are
like me and maybe have loving family
loving friends
but if you were to turn the volume up on
all of them and they were to be your
only inner circle
um it'd be really easy
for self-doubt to take over it'd be
really easy
to dim your own light and i talked about
my journey of
sort of how i chose my circle around me
um and it's never based on a commonality
of life experience it's
my closest friends and i think this is
important for everyone listening because
a lot of people are like oh
you know i don't have an inner circle
that empowers me how do i find one you
know i would say impact theory and
impact your university that that alone
can be a
part of your inner circle that's a voice
and
conversations and information that you
want to turn the volume up on and i talk
about this because i think this is
universal for everyone and so important
to do this a lot of times people build
their circle of friends based on who
they went to school with or you know
things they have in common and all the
stuff right maybe it's a group of people
from work because you're around them all
the time whatever it is and i think that
that's not always the right thing i
think who your circle is is so important
and for me
um i go deep on this in the book and
talk about each one of their stories
because i want to drive the point home
that who you do surround yourself with
and when you judge them by
their heart and how they pour into you
and champion you and don't tell you this
crap you just because you want to hear
it they tell you the real truth which is
so important um they don't get jealous
when you're flying high they want you to
fly higher i talk about this this
commonality
of traits
and yet my closest group of friends have
literally almost nothing in common you
know they their backgrounds are so
different they have different faiths and
no faith
they they
one of them was homeless all growing up
and lived in the projects and then
figured out
how to build her own circle and become
an entrepreneur and and she figured out
how to turn down the volume of
negativity and lack of dreaming of all
the people around her for the most part
that she was raised in and how did she
turn that volume up on her own like
inner light and i share this common
thread um really just to
uh inspire a mindset shift sometimes of
oh you know what
my circle of friends you know each
person listening right now my circle of
friends they don't need to think like i
do or pray like i do
or love like i do or anything else but
like if i surround myself with people
that are
truly
telling the truth
loving me authentically
and uplifting and dreaming big with me
and calling me out on the bs when i
start to like talk myself out of my own
truth right which we all do it's a
lifelong journey talk about the power of
finding people like that and surrounding
yourself with them and i think they can
be people in real life and i also think
that they can be
people that you let pour into you who
maybe you've never even met um like you
like your show for people you know what
i mean i think that that's really
powerful
who we let speak into our lives
and who we turn the volume down on but
still love anyway
is so important
because one of our biggest mistakes is
turning the volume up on the people just
because we love them and they're our
family
and then all of a sudden that's all all
the noise we hear
and it impacts our whole
life talk to me about the ability to
turn the volume up and down that was one
of the things i found really
extraordinary in your book like if i
were gonna do like a spoof of your book
it would go something like this
somebody was really [__] mean
i cried like a [__] and then i
walked in the next room like a warrior
like it's that over and over
like every time well i mean you you
actually have a whole chapter in the
book about swinging your big balls which
we should definitely talk about
but first give me the idea how do you
turn the volume down when you said that
earlier about the guy who said look
people aren't going to buy makeup from
somebody that looks like you
how do we grab the volume knob on
something that gnarly
yeah i mean it is such a uh
disciplined practice it's such a skill
it's hard i mean just yesterday i had
someone do something that i thought was
like a super close friend and i was just
blindsided and i felt so betrayed and
listen we all go through these things
and they're hard um and one of my
friends many years ago bob goff is his
name he taught me this and it just stuck
i just feel like it was so important to
talk about it because this tool that
baba taught me uh
where he talked about your own
microphone and then the volume dial and
he
basically i imagine right because
you know but i have this microphone
everyone listening right now imagine you
have your own microphone
and you have to get into really good
practice of like who you hand your
microphone to and let's speak into it
and
what i had to learn one example of this
is you know my dad who was an alcoholic
who was
a
a good man with a
really bad addiction um
and loved me the best way he knew how
with his own capacity and i remember i
was you know working i was always super
ambitious i wanted to get a car and go
travel all the things so i had four jobs
in high school and you know i got i was
working uh one of my jobs is working in
a um
health club and i started as
receptionist and then uh they said well
if you sell memberships
um you'll make commission on those too
and i started selling a lot of
memberships and
i was like this is great and so after
high school i didn't go to school right
away i moved out got my own apartment i
was making like 55 000 a year which was
more
than my dad at his
at his uh job he had been at and uh and
i never forget when i made this decision
i was gonna go to school i was like okay
because i just wanted to get out meet
other people and like figure stuff out
and i remember when i told him i'm gonna
quit my job and i'm gonna go to school
and he was mortified he's like what are
you doing like do you know how much
money you're making right now i mean she
was so upset and so worried about me
that i was making a huge mistake and so
i remember even in that moment
you know
we all have experiences like that in our
lives with our family right they're
seeing things through their own lens of
experience but whether it's a story like
that or it's just a friend that you love
hanging out with and you go to the gym
with only but anytime you share a hope
and dream all of a sudden you feel them
lower your vibration like you feel it
right because they don't get it or they
or they don't like it or they whatever
it is
bob goff taught me this that basically
you learn oh i'm going to take back my
microphone from them on those topics
right i'm going to talk to them about
my workout today or
in my dad's case you know what's
happening on the news or whatever
but i started learning with my own big
hopes and dreams
i don't give other people my microphone
who are then just gonna literally lower
my vibration because of their own lens
of limitation and it's the skill you
develop and when you imagine holding
your own microphone
listen we all
you know if you have if you are blessed
to have a family or friends that you
love it's not like
you know you want to just
x them out of your life because they
don't understand your hopes and dreams
but learning to just not share them all
with them hold your own mic talk to them
about other things like what's on the
bachelor or like what's going on with
whatever right and love them but put
those boundaries in place and then the
other thing is the volume dial and
that's big and you know people have said
things to us that have hurt us probably
universally there's probably not a
single person out there that hasn't had
someone say something to them that hurts
them deeply and it is human nature to
relive it over and over and over and
over in our own head to the point where
we carve a groove and it's like it
starts to stick and take root and i
think it is so important
mentally for me like i'd ha every time
that that dude who said no one will buy
makeup from you and there are so many
other rejections that i talk about in
the book um you know when i went to
sephora and felt like i didn't belong
and i didn't fit in and
all those things you know a lot of times
the most hurtful words we hear are the
ones we say to ourselves the ones we
make make up and
telling ourselves we're not enough and
all that kind of stuff and i have to be
mindful and intentional and literally
imagine myself when those thoughts come
up stopping them turning down the volume
and then turning up the volume on
something else until i believe it
so you use visualization quite a bit um
is that intentional because i know that
when you had your first big thing on qvc
you went a week early sat in the parking
lot every day
and imagined it going well and i was
like whoa
she preps like an athlete
i did i am you know after three years of
rejection
and hearing no and that we're not
literally
literally the words you're not the right
fit for qvc are for our customers um
when you hear that it's really hard to
not believe it you know so i'd heard
that for three years and we finally got
one shot we finally got a yes we had
this 10 minute window and uh to sell our
product and anyone who's a business
owner out there will kind of understand
this that we're only selling two to
three orders a day on our website and
barely surviving and to take this one
shot on air we had to sell over 6 000
units of our product to hit their sales
goal yeah
and so we had to figure out how to
literally get an sba loan borrow money
to manufacture it to ship it to them to
get this one shot and it was consignment
so if it didn't sell
we'd have to take it all back and we'd
go bankrupt right so you should never
say yes to this unless you're totally
desperate and you're gonna maybe go out
of business anyway which is the case
that we were in so you know we said yes
we finally got a shot and i felt the
weight of the world on my shoulders i
flew out and i sat all alone in this
rental car uh out front of their
building for a week literally imagining
uh and i was like and by the way tom at
the time i was not trained on how to do
this i was like i think olympic athletes
they they imagine themselves like
landing the triple axel or like you know
a standing on the podium i'm like that's
what i'm going to do and i sat in that
car and i imagined the sold out sign
coming up across the screen i imagined
you know my message connecting with real
women watching at home i imagine all
those things
but the other big thing is probably like
that moment in time for me was one of
the biggest life and business lessons
i've ever learned like literally learned
and fold right in front of my eyes which
was you know we had one shot and
i we hired um third-party consultants
that help a lot of people sell on
television and they help a lot of people
with their businesses and you know i
shared with them okay we have this
10-minute segment i think i want to take
my makeup off and just show my bright
red rosacea and like prove prove alive
how this works and put all models that
are different ages and sizes and skin
tones and skin problems
and they were like mortified they're
like okay here's the thing because they
wanted us to win right like that's their
job they wanted us to succeed
and what they all advised was you know
if you want your best shot at success
here's what you need to do use these
this type of model with perfect skin the
kind i've seen my whole life on
tv you know on television ads and i'm
like but that's not why i created this
company like that that would be
inauthentic to why i'm doing this and uh
you know but they're like and we would
fight about it and i was like plus
like let's just take a big step back
this doesn't make sense to me if i'm
sitting at home watching and maybe i
have hyper pigmentation or i'm 75 years
old and i'm like oh is this product for
me
and i only see
one type of model who like with perfect
hot with perfect skin how do i know it's
going to work for me like this doesn't
make sense to me and we would fight
about it and they wanted the best thing
and that's the other thing i've learned
is like sometimes experts i wish i knew
this lesson earlier i would have saved
myself so many nights crying myself to
sleep but sometimes experts that
are touted visionaries
they would never be able to admit this
ever but they still subconsciously can't
imagine something succeeding if they
haven't already seen it succeed before
so it's like
anybody doing anything novel or
different
and by definition if you're doing
something authentic even if it's already
been done before no one's going to do it
like you so you're doing it novel
and new
it's hard for anyone to imagine it's
succeeding so oftentimes when people
don't believe in you or don't believe in
your dream or don't believe in your idea
or your product or your vision
is not personal and it's not even
often uh uh
valuable because they just actually
can't imagine it because it hasn't been
done before so anyhow
they're all telling me
to do it a certain way to do to take my
one shot in that 10-minute window and do
it a certain way and use perfect models
of perfect skin and all this
so i sat there in that car like
literally praying and crying because i
also didn't want to go out of business
you know what i mean and i was like okay
well
i just keep having this gut it was like
it was like my gut was on you know
one hand and this expert's advice were
on another and i always
were so tempted to put experts on a
pedestal too
but my gut kept telling me
not to do it because it's inauthentic so
then i'd have thoughts like okay well
maybe i'll try it their way and i'll
build success
and i won't go bankrupt and then i'll
try it my way i had all these thoughts
and that's why one of the things i talk
about in the book is the idea that like
authenticity alone doesn't guarantee
success but inauthenticity guarantees
failure
and i knew that and i just sat there in
that car and i imagined who was going to
be watching and i imagined like that
person sitting at home and i made this
decision that i would rather have her
whoever she was i'd rather have her look
up on her screen and see me taking my
makeup off and showing all different
types of women and calling them
beautiful and meaning it i'd rather have
her look up on her screen and feel like
she's seen and like she matters and like
she's enough even if she buys nothing
if she's gonna give me a few seconds of
her precious time i'd rather do that
than sell a [__] ton of product and
stand for nothing and it was that moment
where i knew what i had to do
but sometimes we know what we have to do
and it's really freaking scary and i
remember that i got my one shot and
i was in the qvc studios and i see the
countdown clock and i know we're about
to go live with 10 minutes to 100
million homes and uh what i learned also
tom was oh you're not guaranteed that 10
minutes like if you go live and you're
not hitting the goals like a minute or
two minutes in you can get your time cut
live
and then you're totally you know like oh
gosh i'm totally screwed and
and um you can't i've also learned this
thing you also you can't try to sell
because then nothing sells right you
can't fake authenticity so it was so
much pressure and
it was like i knew what i had to do and
to how you started this interview
is exactly why we succeeded it was like
i remember the clock went live and it
was you know and i remember it was like
9 59 958
and i was freaking out and my hand was
shaking like crazy right and it was like
uh
but maybe a minute left when the host
was it was all of a sudden and i didn't
know how it was going but i knew our
time didn't get cut yet and um there was
about a minute left and the host started
saying doing what they call a shade
countdown meaning okay we're almost sold
out of the deep shade there's 200 left
in the day and i'm like and i remember
at the 10-minute mark literally the
sold-out sign i envisioned so many times
comes up across the screen and
i just start crying on national
television and
my husband put a great picture in the
book is fantastic you saw the picture
right yeah okay so literally in that
moment you saw this sold out sign came
up and then uh and then my husband came
rushing in the double doors he's like
we're not going bankrupt like he was
that's all he was like so happy about
meanwhile i'm like
this worked like real women spoken and
there's this big thing and that one show
turned into five we got welcome back um
turned into five that year and then uh
we ended up doing over 250 live shows a
year for eight years and and right now
do and so it cosmetics so we built the
largest
beauty brand in qvc's history and it is
right now at this moment and
and i only think that that is
important to share because it was three
years of them
of them saying no you're not the right
fit uh and i just think that
i don't know i think that anyone going
through that right now like no one can
tell you you're you're not the right fit
you know what i mean
i do indeed
my dear this was extraordinary where can
people catch up with you where can they
get more of you
oh
uh well i am on instagram at jamie
curran lima and that's part of the
platform i'm on most i am in the dms and
all that and um and the book is on
believeit.com and there's a bunch of
free gifts by the way we're doing a big
like launch celebration around watch
timing so
free lots of free gifts if you order the
book anywhere wherever you feel like it
it's sold everywhere and then you just
go to believe it dot com because the
book's name is believe it so believe it
dot com and you get a bunch of free
gifts to celebrate um for launch week
and so yeah this is an honor though an
honor to spend time with you
i will be amazing
this was a lot of fun you were welcome
back anytime there are so many things
that we didn't get a touch on it'd be
fun to do an interview at some point
that's just like raw business how to
make business decisions
that would be a lot of fun i would love
that
thank you so much for coming on guys if
you haven't already be sure to follow
her and read the book it will blow your
mind it is amazing whether you're into
business or not you're going to love it
again it's called believe it and
speaking of things you should believe if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care